---
layout: post
title: First Blog Post
---


Being a data scientist is about analyzing data using statistics and programming and communicating results to the stakeholders of the data.
For a data scientist I see the major knowledge areas are statistics, programming, and an expertise in a field like research or business. The duties of a data scientist are to develop and run analysis of data, create dashboards and visualization tools that allow business decisions and research development, ensure good database structure, and predictive modeling. 
I think the main similiarity between data scientists and statisticians is their knowledge of statistics and how to use statistics. For the data scientists I think they have a really good understanding of statistics and then go steps further to use them in ways that answer questions. In my experience the statisticians that I've met at work provide insights to what type of analysis should be done given the structure of the data and how the experiments were setup. For example, suggesting a power analysis to make sure the expeirment has enough reps to ensure a good data set that we can run statistics on the data and feel comfortable with the sample size. Or evaluating how analysis of data is done and suggesting alternatives if needed.
I view myself as more of a data scientists than a statistician. I have training in statistics, programming, and several years of experience working in the agriculture biotechnology sector. The experience I have from working in a agriculture lab and research make my job as a data manager easier because I see the full picture of how the data is generated to now working with the data. This also helps me visualize the data and consider the business and research point of view to make better visualizations for scientists and leadership. This kind of experience I believe helps me be a better data manager. I also work with different programming languages like R and MySQL that are commonly used by data scientists. Through classes that I'm taking in the graduate certificate program and from my undergraduate degree I'm gaining the statistics knowledge as well. All of this together I think aligns me in more of the data scientists category than statistician. 
